---
layout: project
title: "Bachelor thesis"
date: 2018-09-01
categories: Project
typefilt: "bp"
---
My Bachelor thesis is named "Recognising fake news in digital space". 

In my thesis I have analysed existing solutions to the problem of recognising which news are not true. During my research I found out none of the solutions are really dependable.

That is why I focused my own work on identifying which news and messages have the most lie-spreading potential and then prioritize fact-checking the most viral news.
This solution uses not only the possibility of going viral, but also leverages the crowd and users' ability to mark content as fake. 
That allows us to reduce as much disinformation spreading as possible without trying to guess whether the article itself is true or false as existing algorithms do not work that well yet.

### Abstract
In our work we focus on recognising fake news in digital space. 
First, we delve into the history of fake news to explain how much they can influence people’s opinions and therefore their behaviour. We also talk about different definitions of fake news and misinformation, while putting forth our best classification of what we consider to be fake news. 
We then explore several possible approaches to recognising misinformation, mainly fake news, and explain how these work, their advantages and disadvantages, and finally results and success rates each them reached during experiments. We talk about linguistic approaches, that are content-based, how they use deep syntax and semantic analysis to label articles and recognise which are untrue. Later we focus on network-based approaches, that try to avoid evaluating content itself, but rather try to use articles’ spreading data on social networks to create more accurate guesses, that do not rely on processing whole article texts. 
Finally, we propose an improvement to one of these methods that we will try to implement in our work.



Hopefully I'll finish it in time.
<script src="//www.powr.io/powr.js?external-type=html"></script> 
 <div class="powr-countdown-timer" id="25717c01_1551956370"></div>